---
type: 'journal'
title: "Advances and Challenges in Video Saliency Prediction: A Comprehensive Survey"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p002/
<<<<<<< Updated upstream
date: 2024-06-20
venue: 'Q1 High impact factor journal'
=======
date: In Process of Writing (70% completed)
venue: '(It will be published at a Q1 high impact factor journals)'
>>>>>>> Stashed changes
paperurl: 'https://google.com'
authors: '<b>Iman Kianian</b>, Pooria Omrani, Ramin Toosi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
<b>Iman Kianian</b>, Pooria Omrani, Zahra Ebrahimian, Alireza Hosseini, Ramin Toosi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee

<h3> Abstract </h3>
<<<<<<< Updated upstream
A key task in computer vision is image and video saliency prediction (VSP), which aims to automatically identify the visually salient regions in an image or video sequence. It can be used for a wide variety of tasks, such as object detection, content-aware video editing, visual attention modelling, and human-computer interaction. This survey offers a thorough overview of the most recent techniques for predicting the saliency of images and videos, including both conventional and deep learning-based methods. We examine diverse approaches, datasets, assessment measures, and field obstacles in order to shed light on saliency prediction research's advances and potential future paths. This survey comprehensively reviews the advancements and methodologies in video saliency prediction. It provides an overview of traditional approaches, deep learning-based methods, and challenges encountered in both image and video saliency prediction tasks. Furthermore, it highlights various evaluation metrics, benchmark datasets, and applications where saliency prediction plays a crucial role. By identifying the existing gaps and open research directions, this survey aims to inspire future advancements in the field of video saliency prediction, facilitating the development of more accurate and robust saliency models for various applications.
=======
Video saliency prediction is a computer vision task that involves automatically identifying and localizing the most visually significant regions within video frames. The goal is to determine which parts of a video frame are most likely to capture human attention and interest. This task is essential because it plays a crucial role in various applications, such as video summarization, object tracking, content recommendation, and more. Video saliency prediction is challenging due to the dynamic and temporal nature of videos, as it requires modeling how human visual attention changes over time while watching a video. It involves complex machine learning and deep learning techniques to analyze and predict salient regions within video sequences, contributing to improved video understanding and user experiences. This survey examines diverse approaches and highlights various evaluation metrics, benchmark datasets, and applications where saliency prediction plays a crucial role. It also compares the state-of-the-art approaches with each other on benchmark datasets with two factors of accuracy and time complexity. By identifying the existing gaps and open research directions, this survey aims to inspire future advancements in the field of video saliency prediction, facilitating the development of more accurate and robust saliency models for various applications.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes
